Updates to "What's new in Accessibility in .NET Framework" (#30721)
dotnet/docs: docs/framework/whats-new/whats-new-in-accessibility.md

</runtime>
```

## What's new in accessibility in .NET Framework 4.8.1
.NET Framework 4.8.1 includes new accessibility features in the following areas:

- [Windows Forms](#winforms481)

- [Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF)](#wpf481)

<a name="winforms481"></a>

### Windows Forms

> **Added and improved UIA representations**

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Added and improved UIA representations**
```

> Prior to .NET Framework 4.8.1 Windows Forms was missing support for a range of UIA patterns to support assistive technology like to interact with applications. This could cause Narrator or other screen readers to report incomplete or incorrect information, and prevent important functionality like moving a cursor through the text in a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox> control. With this version of .NET Framework all of the requried patterns for the Common Controls have been implemented giving users of assistive technology a much richer application interaction experience.

Reviewer 2: The first sentense may need some tweaks as it looks as though it has broken grammar: "...WF was missing support for ... to support assistive technology like to interact with applications."

> Prior to .NET Framework 4.8.1 Windows Forms was missing support for a range of UIA patterns to support assistive technology like to interact with applications. This could cause Narrator or other screen readers to report incomplete or incorrect information, and prevent important functionality like moving a cursor through the text in a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox> control. With this version of .NET Framework all of the requried patterns for the Common Controls have been implemented giving users of assistive technology a much richer application interaction experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to .NET Framework 4.8.1, Windows Forms was missing support for a range of UIA patterns to support assistive technology, for example, to interact with applications. This deficiency could cause Narrator or other screen readers to report incomplete or incorrect information. It could also affect important functionality like moving a cursor through the text in a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox> control. With .NET Framework 4.8.1, all of the required patterns for the common controls have been implemented. This new functionality gives users of assistive technology a much richer application interaction experience.
```

> - Added support for the UIA Expand/Collapse pattern to the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DateTimePicker> control

Reviewer 2: List elements must end with a full stop. Ditto below too.
```suggestion
- Added support for the UIA Expand/Collapse pattern to the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DateTimePicker> control.
```

Reviewer: Also I don't think Expand/Collapse should be capitalized.

- Added UIA support to the <xref:System.Wndows.Forms.MonthCalendar> control. Now assistive technology tools such as Narrator can navigate through the individual dates in the control.

> - Implemented Text Pattern support to all text based controls including <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.MaskedTextBox>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> edit control, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewTextBoxCell>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripTextBox>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DomainUpDown> controls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Implemented text pattern support for all text-based controls, including the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.MaskedTextBox>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> edit control, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewTextBoxCell>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripTextBox>, and <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DomainUpDown> controls.
```

> - <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolTips> now follow <a href='https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/content-on-hover-or-focus.html'> WCAG2.1 guidelines</a> to be persistent, dismissable, and hoverable on Windows 11.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolTip> now follows <a href='https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/content-on-hover-or-focus.html'>WCAG2.1 guidelines</a> to be persistent, dismissable, and hoverable on Windows 11.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolTip> now follows [WCAG2.1 guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/content-on-hover-or-focus.html) to be persistent, dismissable, and hoverable on Windows 11.
```

> **Various bug fixes for existing accessibility features**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Various bug fixes for existing accessibility features**

```

- Narrator can now focus on an empty <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> control.

> - Updated the luminosity ratio to 3.5:1 for <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripButton> controls with a `ToolStripRenderMode` set to `System`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Updated the luminosity ratio to 3.5:1 for <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripButton> controls that have `ToolStripRenderMode` set to `System`.
```

> - Fixed a case which could cause the screen reader JAWS to crash when reading the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue that could cause the screen reader JAWS to crash when reading the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> control.
```

> - Addressed an issue which caused screen readers to count hidden columns when announcing the column count in a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Addressed an issue that caused screen readers to count hidden columns when announcing the column count in a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> control.
```

> - Addressed an issue cuaing the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> to ignore the font settings set in the `DataGridviewCellStyle` if the underlying form has a `Font` property that differs from the `DefaultFont`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Addressed an issue that caused the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> to ignore the font settings set in the `DataGridviewCellStyle` if the underlying form had a `Font` property that differed from `DefaultFont`.
```

- Updated the `AccessibleName` property of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> control's internal scroll bars to remove the text "ScrollBar".
- Fixed the color of a `DataGridViewLinkCell` when the cell is selected.
- Improved keyboard navigation in a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStrip> when the element is a `ToolStripComboBox` type.

> - Fixed an issue with the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ComboBox> which could cause application crash under Accessibility Insights for Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue with the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ComboBox> that could cause the app to crash under Accessibility Insights for Windows.
```

- Updated the border color for the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Button> to have more contrast in the default colors.

> - Ensured that there was a bounding rectangle reported to assitive technology for the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripSeparator>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensured that there is a bounding rectangle reported to assistive technology for the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripSeparator>.
```

> - Enabled assistive technology tools to access the `ControlBox` buttons of a maximized MDI Child form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enabled assistive technology tools to access the `ControlBox` buttons of a maximized MDI child form.
```

> - Updated the background color of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripButton> in High Contrast mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Updated the background color of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripButton> in high contrast mode.
```

> - <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DomainUpDown> control `AccessibleName` property has a new default value of an empty string. This will encourage developers to create a meanignful name rather than accepting a default of "Spinner"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `AccessibleName` property of a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DomainUpDown> control has a new default value of an empty string. The empty string will encourage developers to create a meaningful name rather than accepting a default of "Spinner".
```

Reviewer: Also this is confusing. It says the default is an empty string, and then that it is "Spinner".

Author: Tried to rephrase, is this better?

> - Ensured that the UIA Hierarchy tree for a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> control when a complex entry, like `Font` is expaneded, and updated properly when the entry is then collapsed and no longer visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensured that the UIA hierarchy tree for a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> control is updated when a complex entry like `Font` is expanded. Also ensure that the tree is updated properly when the entry is then collapsed and no longer visible.
```

> - Updated the `AccessibleName` property of the Print button in the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintPreveiwDialog> from "Print Button" to "Print" to avoid redundancy when screen readers announce the control and its type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Updated the `AccessibleName` property of the Print button in the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintPreviewDialog> from "Print Button" to "Print" to avoid redundancy when screen readers announce the control and its type.
```

> - <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> categories now have a localized control type of "PropertyGrid category"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> categories now have a localized control type of "`PropertyGrid category`".
```

> - Fixed an issue with custom <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> where there was no ControlType or LocalizedControlType provided publicly for custom <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewCell> elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue with custom <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> controls where there was no `ControlType` or `LocalizedControlType` provided publicly for custom <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewCell> elements.
```

> - Removed an empty UIA list element when a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGridCell> of type `ComboBox` is closed and no longer visible.

Reviewer 2: I'm finding this list somewhat hard to parse because it jumps back and forth - e.g., we mention DGV in the first point, then we move to something else, then mention the DGV again, then move to something else again, and then again talk about the DGV... It'd be great to re-order the list in a way that groups points by a control.

Author: Let me get all the suggestions in and then I will try reordering to group the items by related controls. We hadn't done that in previous releases, but this one has a whole bunch of fixes rather than new features.

> - Removed an empty UIA list element when a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGridCell> of type `ComboBox` is closed and no longer visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Updated UIA list controls to remove an empty list element when a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGridCell> of type `ComboBox` is closed and no longer visible.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<a name="wpf48"></a>

> ### Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF)
```

> ####Accessible Tooltip handling improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Accessible Tooltip handling improvements
```

> In this release WPF improved the experience by ensuring that a tooltip in the current window can easily be dismissed by using the ESC key, the CTRL key (by itself), or by the combination Ctrl+Shift+F10. The scope of the Escape key was reduced in this release to apply only to the current window, when previously it would have been any open tooltip in the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this release WPF improved the experience by ensuring that a tooltip in the current window can easily be dismissed by using the ESC key, the CTRL key (by itself), or by the combination Ctrl+Shift+F10. The scope of the ESC key was reduced in this release to apply only to the current window, when previously it would have been any open tooltip in the application.
```

> In this release WPF improved the experience by ensuring that a tooltip in the current window can easily be dismissed by using the ESC key, the CTRL key (by itself), or by the combination Ctrl+Shift+F10. The scope of the Escape key was reduced in this release to apply only to the current window, when previously it would have been any open tooltip in the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In this release, WPF improved the experience by ensuring that a tooltip in the current window can easily be dismissed by using the Esc key, the Ctrl key (by itself), or by the combination Ctrl+Shift+F10. The scope of the Esc key was reduced in this release to apply only to the current window, when previously it would have applied to any open tooltip in the application.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</runtime>
```

## What's new in accessibility in .NET Framework 4.8.1
.NET Framework 4.8.1 includes new accessibility features in the following areas:

- [Windows Forms](#winforms481)

- [Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF)](#wpf481)

<a name="winforms481"></a>

### Windows Forms

**Added and improved UIA representations**

> Prior to .NET Framework 4.8.1, Windows Forms was missing support for a range of UIA patterns to support assistive technology, for example, to interact with applications. This deficiency could cause Narrator or other screen readers to report incomplete or incorrect information. It could also affect important functionality like moving a cursor through the text in a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox> control. With .NET Framework 4.8.1, all of the required patterns for the common controls have been implemented. This new functionality gives users of assistive technology a much richer application interaction experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Prior to .NET Framework 4.8.1, Windows Forms was missing support for a range of UIA patterns to support assistive technology to interact with applications. This deficiency could cause Narrator or other screen readers to report incomplete or incorrect information. It could also affect important functionality like moving a cursor through the text in a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox> control. With .NET Framework 4.8.1, all of the required patterns for the common controls have been implemented. This new functionality gives users of assistive technology a much richer application interaction experience.
```

Remove `for example`

- Added support for the UIA expand/collapse pattern to the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DateTimePicker> control.
- Added UIA support to the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.MonthCalendar> control. Now assistive technology tools such as Narrator can navigate through the individual dates in the control.
- Implemented text pattern support for all text-based controls, including the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.MaskedTextBox>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> edit control, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewTextBoxCell>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripTextBox>, and <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DomainUpDown> controls.

> - <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolTip> now follows [WCAG2.1 guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/content-on-hover-or-focus.html) to be persistent, dismissable, and hoverable on Windows 11.

Reviewer 3: I think it would help to mention that that `Ctrl` is used to dismiss the tooltip. And that this only applies to tooltips that did not define any timeouts programmatically.

Reviewer 3: I think it would help to explicitly mention that on Window 10 and below this feature will not work and that it is not controlled by are switches, only requires the new bits and win11.

**Various bug fixes for existing accessibility features**

- Narrator can now focus on an empty <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> control.
- Addressed an issue that caused screen readers to count hidden columns when announcing the column count in a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> control.
- Addressed an issue that caused the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> to ignore the font settings set in the `DataGridviewCellStyle` if the underlying form had a `Font` property that differed from `DefaultFont`.
- Updated the `AccessibleName` property of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> control's internal scroll bars to remove the text "ScrollBar".
- Fixed the color of a `DataGridViewLinkCell` when the cell is selected.

> - Fixed an issue with custom <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> controls where there was no `ControlType` or `LocalizedControlType` provided publicly for custom <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewCell> elements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue with custom <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> controls where there was no `ControlType` or `LocalizedControlType` provided for custom <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewCell> elements.
```
Remove `publicly` - this name is not providedr as a public property, it is just set to a hardcoded value.

- Updated the luminosity ratio to 3.5:1 for <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripButton> controls that have `ToolStripRenderMode` set to `System`.
- Improved keyboard navigation in a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStrip> when the element is a `ToolStripComboBox` type.
- Updated the background color of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripButton> in high contrast mode.
- Ensured that there is a bounding rectangle reported to assistive technology for the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripSeparator>.
- Fixed an issue that could cause the screen reader JAWS to crash when reading the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> control.
- Ensured that the UIA hierarchy tree for a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> control is updated when a complex entry like `Font` is expanded. Also ensure that the tree is updated properly when the entry is then collapsed and no longer visible.

> - <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> categories now have a localized control type of "`PropertyGrid category`".

Reviewer 3: Do you need 2 sets of quotation marks around PropertyGrid Category?

Reviewer: That was my suggestion that Merrie had accepted, but looking at it more, I think only the backticks should be retained.

```suggestion
- <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> categories now have a localized control type of `PropertyGrid category`.
```

- Fixed an issue with the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ComboBox> that could cause the app to crash under Accessibility Insights for Windows.
- Updated the border color for the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Button> to have more contrast in the default colors.
- Enabled assistive technology tools to access the `ControlBox` buttons of a maximized MDI child form.
- The `AccessibleName` property of a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DomainUpDown> control has a new default value of an empty string. The empty string will encourage developers to create a meaningful name rather than accepting the previous default value.
- Updated the `AccessibleName` property of the Print button in the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintPreviewDialog> from "Print Button" to "Print" to avoid redundancy when screen readers announce the control and its type.
- Updated UIA list controls to remove an empty list element when a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> cell of type `ComboBox` is closed and no longer visible.

<a name="wpf481"></a>

### Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF)

#### Accessible Tooltip handling improvements

> In this release, WPF improved the experience by ensuring that a tooltip in the current window can easily be dismissed by using the Esc key, the Ctrl key (by itself), or by the combination Ctrl+Shift+F10. The scope of the Esc key was reduced in this release to apply only to the current window, when previously it would have applied to any open tooltip in the application.

Reviewer 3: I think it would help to add a reference to  `[WCAG2.1 guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/content-on-hover-or-focus.html)` here as well.

> In this release, WPF improved the experience by ensuring that a tooltip in the current window can easily be dismissed by using the Esc key, the Ctrl key (by itself), or by the combination Ctrl+Shift+F10. The scope of the Esc key was reduced in this release to apply only to the current window, when previously it would have applied to any open tooltip in the application.

Reviewer 3: As far as I remember WPF had defined a special quirk for this tooltip on top of level5.

Author: Yeah, but it doesn't quite work at this point. I'd hate to advertise and then get lots of complaints.

- Updated the `AccessibleName` property of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> control's internal scroll bars to remove the text "ScrollBar".
- Fixed the color of a `DataGridViewLinkCell` when the cell is selected.
- Fixed an issue with custom <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> controls where there was no `ControlType` or `LocalizedControlType` provided for custom <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewCell> elements.
- Updated the luminosity ratio to 3.5:1 for <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripButton> controls that have `ToolStripRenderMode` set to `System`.
- Improved keyboard navigation in a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStrip> when the element is a `ToolStripComboBox` type.
- Updated the background color of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripButton> in high contrast mode.
- Ensured that there is a bounding rectangle reported to assistive technology for the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ToolStripSeparator>.
- Fixed an issue that could cause the screen reader JAWS to crash when reading the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> control.

> - Ensured that the UIA hierarchy tree for a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> control is updated when a complex entry like `Font` is expanded. Also ensure that the tree is updated properly when the entry is then collapsed and no longer visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensured that the UIA hierarchy tree for a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> control is updated when a complex entry like `Font` is expanded. Also ensured that the tree is updated properly when the entry is then collapsed and no longer visible.
```

- <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> categories now have a localized control type of `PropertyGrid category`.
- Fixed an issue with the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.ComboBox> that could cause the app to crash under Accessibility Insights for Windows.
- Updated the border color for the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Button> to have more contrast in the default colors.
- Enabled assistive technology tools to access the `ControlBox` buttons of a maximized MDI child form.

> - The `AccessibleName` property of a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DomainUpDown> control has a new default value of an empty string. The empty string will encourage developers to create a meaningful name rather than accepting the previous default value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `AccessibleName` property of a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DomainUpDown> control has a new default value of an empty string. The empty string will encourage developers to create a meaningful name rather than accepting the previous non-empty default value.
```

- Updated the `AccessibleName` property of the Print button in the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintPreviewDialog> from "Print Button" to "Print" to avoid redundancy when screen readers announce the control and its type.
- Updated UIA list controls to remove an empty list element when a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> cell of type `ComboBox` is closed and no longer visible.

<a name="wpf481"></a>

### Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF)

#### Accessible Tooltip handling improvements

> In this release, WPF improved the experience by ensuring that a tooltip in the current window can easily be dismissed by using the Esc key, the Ctrl key (by itself), or by the combination Ctrl+Shift+F10. The scope of the Esc key was reduced in this release to apply only to the current window, when previously it would have applied to any open tooltip in the application. By default WPF tooltips will follow [WCAG2.1 guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/content-on-hover-or-focus.html) to be persistent, dismissable, and hoverable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release, WPF improved the experience by ensuring that a tooltip in the current window can easily be dismissed by using the Esc key, the Ctrl key (by itself), or by the combination Ctrl+Shift+F10. The scope of the Esc key was reduced in this release to apply only to the current window, when previously it would have applied to any open tooltip in the application. By default, WPF tooltips will follow [WCAG2.1 guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/content-on-hover-or-focus.html) to be persistent, dismissable, and hoverable.
```
